The diagram in this folder answered several questions for me about instruction 
processing and how the hell some the magic was working.
http://www.weihenstephan.org/~michaste/pagetable/6502/6502.jpg

Honestly before encountering this I was completely lost on several issues.

## Multibyte Instruction storage

First thing I was lost on was how the processor was storing the lo byte for operations
that required a full address or reads beyond the opcode. Looking through this awesome manual I found a hint
http://users.telenet.be/kim1-6502/6502/proman.html#51

```The address low (ADL) is stored in the ALU while the address high (ADH) is being fetched in cycle 3.```

But thats even more mysterious in some sense, the ALU is just a bunch of
combinatorial logic gates, how can it remember something? It can't. Which is where this amazing diagram comes in. The CPU has several internal registers, connected to internal buses that get flipped on and off based on the decode logic on the left.

You'll notice the usual suspect registers along the bottom and right edges. Connected to the ALU are two 3 extra registers for temp values, two in, one out, suspiciously called the adder hold register.

This is where the ADL is stored:
1) BI gets the value from the DL at the top, along DB.
2) AI has its value set to zero through the 0/ADD line
3) Result goes into ADD and hangs out for the next data read clock

Every register has flags for whether it's value winds up on the various internal buses, so the instructions in question and the timing unit are conspiring to pull this off.

## Variable cycles

I also wasn't sure how to think about the extra cycles incurred by page violation, but seeing how the various busses work and considering the adds and carrys involved it makes a lot more sense. If you are adding an index to a non "zero page" op you'd need an extra cycle to add a carry to the high byte, otherwise you can just dump the bytes on the address line and fetch next cycle.

So most of the timing is dictated by the addressing mode. Which means that if I build out a way to handle the addressing modes in a simlarly stepped kind of way it should take care of a lot of code duplication. Perhaps even allowing me to adopt a data driven model, rather than a pile of switch statements everywhere.

## Instruction Processing
One thing that was confusing was how the processor managed to process the same instruction across multiple byte reads. This is a somewhat obvious one but it looks like the current instruction is in a register (IR) until the timing chip and clock determine to flip the LOAD flag.

There's mention of pipelining in the doc above and the existence of the PD register in the diagram backs that up/makes it clear. I don't know if this is worth modeling in the emulator. Probably a minor detail for now, but given that there may be read based IRQ stuff you never know.

## PASS MOSFETS
This isn't a point of confusion as much as a cool learning thing. Having all these internal busses they used these passthrough chips that could be turned on and off by pins from the control logic. Didn't know something like that was a thing, but it makes total sense.

For instance thats how you could toss the data straight into the X or Y registers. Set SB/Y, Y/SB, SB/DB, DL/DB to true, and kill all the other load and bus flags and suddenly Y=D.

It's kind of interesting that you can only set ABL to Stack or D directly, otherwise you have to go through the ALU. Which makes sense given the addressing modes actually, cause other than zero page, you always need some kind of storage or math to get the full address loaded up.